>> Steve Kinney: We can figure out
the structure of our language now.
We know what a number is.
We know what an identifier is.
We know what a expression is.
We basically have the very simple
structure to our language.
We do have some problems that we
kind of need to address however.
We can say, yeah, cool, add two numbers.
What does it mean to add two numbers,
right?
And where are we adding these numbers,
We're gonna need a few things here.
We're gonna need a way to
actually use this language.
That'd be cool.
And we're also gonna need some
amount of a standard library, right?
Some amount of things that are available,
right?
JavaScript language itself or
any language that we've used,
even some languages more than JavaScript,
right, have a set of built in objects,
and built in data structures, and
built in functions that we can use.
Even if it's the plus symbol or
something along those lines,
or Ruby's innumerable, or
the Python standard library.
We can do a lot of stuff with just
the language even before the third-party
libraries.
It's basically the foundation for
all of that.
So we're gonna do a few things,
we're going to build a REPL.
I'll talk about what that is.
We're gonna build a little CLI tool.
We're also going to build
the kind of base built
in functions that you can totally expand,
right?
You could actually if you wanted this
language to have all the powers of
low dash, you could have that as
built ins in the language, right?
And but you have to put that into the
standard library using kind of JavaScript
underneath it.
So what is a REPL?
A REPL is a read-evaluate-print loop.
REPL, [LAUGH] it's an acronym,
and it does what it says.
Basically, you give it some expression,
it reads it, it evaluates it, right,
which is the part we
have not implemented yet.
We can parse but we don't and
once we have the structure,
we need to actually then execute it,
right?
And then once you've executed it,
it's effectively printing something to
the screen saying something happened.
You can run a function but if you don't
tell anyone did it really happen?
And then once we have read, evaluated and
printed the result then we give
him another prompt, right?
And we allow them to go ahead and
play the whole game over.
You have used a REPL at some
point of your life likely.
Node has a REPL built in.
If you just type node, you'll get one
where you can start typing things.
Python, Ruby, almost every
language I can think of has one.
So we are gonna need
a few things in place.
I kind of alluded to in
the ramp up to this.
We've just been taking for granted that
there's a add function in the language,
right, or a subtract function
in the language, right?
There can be [LAUGH].
We're the ones making this language and
it means that we got to put them in there,
right?
And we're going to stand on the shoulders
of our JavaScript giants so
that we're not again shifting bets for
the next week and a half, right?
But we need to actually add them in so
that when someone says add two and
two or subtract or multiply or
modular and like I said,
you can add anything you want in there.
Right, we'll do obviously just a kind of
basic set because there's not much more
learning that happens
from doing the 17th one.
And so we'll kind of use some of those
basic things that are kind of built in
there as well.
And so we're going to use JavaScript for
this so
effectively we'll create an add function.
In we have a little bit differently cuz
we don't necessarily have operators
in our language.
Everything is a function
expression currently in a list.
And we know that our add or subtract can
take an unlimited series of arguments.
So we'll have to do a little bit of work.
Now, some of that I've done for you.
It's what I care more
about is the wiring up.
I'll take you on a tour.
And then once I've taken you on
a tour of some of the kind of
structure that I've built,
we'll talk a little bit about, okay,
now how do we actually go ahead and
evaluate this language.
So let's actually look at some of the code
that we have in the quote-unquote standard
library.
And you'll be able to add stuff
to the standard library in.